Now at their core, background and workbench jobs are very similar in that they allow you to run
scripts in a separate session. This is a great feature for any long running scripts you may have,
including for example a machine learning training set. It also allows you to run multiple jobs
simultaneously. Now the main difference between background jobs and workbench jobs is that
background jobs run as a child process within the same session and workbench jobs run as a
new session either on the local server or off host if you're running in a multi-server or
clustered environment. So to demonstrate these two jobs I'm going to first open up the currently
running RStudio session you see right here on Posit Workbench. And in the top left corner
you'll see an R script called long running script. In this script I'm first loading some
R packages so we're loading the tidyverse and then I create three variables x y and z
and I assign them the numeric values 1 2 and 3. Now I did this on purpose so we can see how
environment variables work within background and workbench jobs. Each variable assignment is also
separated by a call to the sys sleep function which simply counts to 10 to replicate a long
running analysis. Then I also have some code here at the bottom which will write the MT cars data
set as an RDS file to my current working directory. So let's first run this as a background job
which will again run as a child R process in the same RStudio session.
To do this I'll select the background jobs right here
and we'll select start background job.
So I next ensure that the long running script is selected so you can select browse and I'll
select that long running script exactly what you see over here. And then I can
choose the working directory and I'll just leave it as this current working directory.
Next you'll see the environment option. Now if I click this box then anything I currently have in
my global environment which you can see over here is empty would be made available to the long
running script. And finally we get to dictate what happens to the results of the long running script.
So if for example we want to access those three variables recreated x y and z and we want to
x y and z then we'll need to select to global environment. We also have the option to not
copy the results or copy them as a separate results object. So let's select to global
environment and start this job. While it's running we'll get some updates here in the
background jobs tab. Now if I try to close this RStudio session we're going to get a
warning here saying that essentially this will terminate that background job if I close this
session. So we don't want to do that. We'll hit cancel and while this is running you can still
see I have access to my console here to write some R code. So let's just give this a few more
seconds to finish up. And there we go. We can see the three variables we have copied
to our global environment x y and z and the MT cars data set is now in my working directory.
Now let's demonstrate workbench jobs which will again run in a separate R session again either on
my local server or off host depending on how you have workbench configured. So let me first delete
the MT cars data set right here and I'm going to restart my R session. So let's first click on
workbench jobs and we'll select start workbench job and you can see I've been playing around with
a few options here. So I'll select start workbench job and we get the same two options. We want to
select the R script we want to run so I'll go to long running script and we'll select my working
directory and we'll do the same directory that script lives within. And then you'll also see up
here workbench job options. This allows you to choose things like how much CPU you want to allocate
to this job how much memory and also depending on how workbench is configured you can also create
customized docker images to deploy this job within. So once you're happy with the setup we can go ahead
and start this job. Now because it's running in a separate R session we could actually close out of
this R studio session. And if we do that you can see in the top right corner you can actually see
the long running script is running as a workbench job.
So let's actually open up that same R studio session we were just in.
So we'll click into it here
and if we go back to workbench jobs you can see it's almost done running it's finally succeeded.
If I refresh my working directory we can now see the mtcars data set is now in my directory.
Now finally it's worth noting that you can also run workbench jobs from within VS Code on Posit
Workbench 2. So if I go back to the Posit Workbench home page you can see I have this VS Code session
opened up so I can click on this. And here we had that same long running R script we showed before
and on the left hand side you'll see workbench jobs. And so if you wanted to submit a workbench
job through VS Code we just have to click this little plus icon. And just like before you'd
select your script working directory and you can start this job. And hopefully this was a helpful
overview of both background jobs and workbench jobs within Posit Workbench.